

Fortune Semiconductor FS9721_LP3 DMM chip
========================================

Serial Protocol
---------------


The chip periodically sends 14-byte packets at 2400 baud, 8n1. The upper nibble of each byte 
indicates the byte number. The payload is composed of the lower nibbles, and is a 1-1 mapping of the 
LCD segments. The downside to this protocol structure is that transmission errors in the LSB nibbles 
cannot be detected. There is no checksum or CRC in the packet. The 4 user-defined bits can have 
different meaning on different multimeters using this IC.


Example Packet

17 27 3D 4F 5D 67 7D 87 9D A0 B0 C0 D4 E0 -> reads: DC 0.000V

Packet structure:

|| Byte  | Bits 7-4  | Bit 3  | Bit 2  | Bit 1  | Bit 0   |

Each digit on the meter uses 2 bytes to store it's setting.

Because the numbers are a seven-segment display, only seven bits are needed to generate the actual 
digit.

The most-significant bit is used, by the left-most digit to indicate whether the reading is 
negative.

For all other digits the most-significant bit is the decimal point bit, indicating that there is a 
decimal point before the digit.



Sequence: 0
High-nibble: 0x1
AC
DC
Auto
RS232

Sequence: 1
High-nibble: 0x2
Negative
1A
1B
1C

Sequence: 2
High-nibble: 0x3
1D
1E
1F
1G

Sequence: 3
High-nibble: 0x4
DP1
2A
2B
2C

Sequence: 4
High-nibble: 0x5
2D
2E
2F
2G

Sequence: 5
High-nibble: 0x6
DP2
3A
3B
3C

Sequence: 6
High-nibble: 0x7
3D
3E
3F
3G

Sequence: 7
High-nibble: 0x8
DP3
4A
4B
4C

Sequence: 8
High-nibble: 0x9
4D
4E
4F
4G

Sequence: 9
High-nibble: 0xa
micro
nano
kilo
Diode

Sequence: 10
High-nibble: 0xb
milli
 %
Mega
Beep

Sequence: 11
High-nibble: 0xc
Farads
Ohms
Rel
Hold

Sequence: 12
High-nibble: 0xd
Amps
Volts
Hertz
Low battery

Sequence: 13
High-nibble: 0xe
User bit 3
User bit 2
User bit 1
User bit 0


Segment lettering
-----------------

In this little diagram the seven segments are shown with a letter which gives a clue as to which bit 
of the lower nibble of each byte controls which segment.

Each digit uses two bytes.  The high-nibble of each stores the sequence number (see above).  The 
highest bit of the low nibble of the first byte is either the negation flag (left-most character), 
or the decimal point indicator (digits other than the left-most).

So, the low-nibble of each of two bytes are like this:

Byte 1: SABC
Byte 2: DEFG

S = sign bit for the first digit or decimal point for the others.

.C.
B.G
.F.
A.E
.D.

