
= Notes on the Controls and Use of the UT60A Unit-T Digital Multimeter =

== These are the controls on the UT60A multimeter ==

=== Top four buttons below display, from left to right ===


- Range
- Hertz %
- Relative
- Hold


=== Two round buttons below top four buttons, left to right ===


- Power
- Function


=== Rotary Switch ===

It's useful that the rotary dial has seven positions.  This allows us to describe the positions of 
the dial and it's functions in relationship to clock positions.  This helps me as a blind user to 
use and describe the meter to others.

The horizontal bar across the centre of the rotary dial has no obvious raised pip or other tactile 
marking that I can detect.

But rotating it fully anti-clockwise until it will go no further, the pointer on the dial is now in 
the 9 o'clock position.

In the table below each selection has a different position from 9 o'clock, through 10, 11, 12, 1, 2 
and finally 3 o'clock.

The _function_ column details what the setting will be after presses of the function (blue) button.  
In some cases repeatedly pressing the function button will cycle it back to it's off position.

For example, when the rotary dial is in the _resistance_ position at 10 o'clock, pressing the 
function button once will switch to _diode_ mode, one more press will activate the _continuity_ 
function (audible beep when leads are shorted), and one final press will cycle it back to 
_resistance_.

From anti-clockwise to clockwise:

|| Unit  | Function  |
| Voltage  | RMS  |
| Resistance  | Diode, continuity  |
| Capacitance  | No blue-button function  |
| Hertz %  |  |
| Micro Amps DC  | Micro Amps AC  |
| Milli Amps DC  | Milli Amps AC  |
| Amps DC  | Amps AC  |

=== Four sockets at bottom, left to right ===

- Ten Amps
- Micro amps and Milliamps
- Common
- Hertz, Volts, Ohms, Diode, Continuity

 === Operation Notes ===

1.  The blue button defaults to off at power on so this reverts the function to a known state.
2.  There is no timeout on the power-on setting.

